# @kandy-io/kandy-hid-vdi

## Kandy HID Driver for VDI

As part of the [Kandy VDI Toolkit](https://github.com/Kandy-IO/kandy-vdi-toolkit), the Kandy HID Driver for VDI is an optional component that enables the use of HID devices in a Citrix VDI environement. The driver is used in conjunction with the [Kandy HID SDK](https://github.com/Kandy-IO/kandy-hid-sdk) running on the VDI Virtual Desktop.

## Installation

This software is delivered in the form of eLux distribution packages. See documentation for your version of Citrix Workspace.

## Logging

Once installed, logs generated by the DLL are written to syslog and so can be observed in /var/log/messages. They have a prefix of `VDIHID:`

## Disabling the Kandy HID Driver for VDI (DLL)

In a Citrix VDI configuration, the Kandy HID Driver for VDI (DLL) can be disabled (prevented from loading) by modifying /setup/kandy.ini on the eLux Thin Client and setting RTC_HID to Off:

```
[Modules]
RTC_HID=Off
```
Note that this will prevent the Kandy HID SDK running in the container/web app from communicating with HID devices.

## Known Issues / Limitations

- In VDI, the Jabra Speak 710 is known to conflict with either the mouse or keyboard when offhook. The issue has been addressed by the vendor in the RP6 / 64-bit version of the eLux OS image. There are no plans to address it in the RP5 / 32-bit version.

## Backwards Compatibility

When used in a Citrix VDI environment, the Kandy HID SDK is backwards-compatible with the most recent and one (1) previous version of DLL (official releases only). This is intended to allow DLL upgrades on the Thin Client installed-base to lag behind application updates.

### Example:
#### Note these are fictional release values for purposes of illustration only; see the [compatibility matrix](./docs/compatibility.md) for actual Kandy HID Driver for VDI (DLL) and Kandy HID SDK version compatibility information.

| DLL Version | SDK Version |                  Explanation                      |
| :---------: | :---------: | :------------------------------------------------ |
| 1.0 | 1.0 | Initial release |
| -   | 1.1 | <ul><li>the Kandy HID SDK is updated</li><li>the Kandy HID Driver for VDI is not updated</li></ul> |
| 1.2 | 1.2 | <ul><li>the Kandy HID SDK is updated</li><li>the Kandy HID Driver for VDI is also updated</li><li>version 1.2 of the Kandy HID SDK is compatible with Kandy HID Driver for VDI versions 1.0 and 1.2</li></ul> |
| 1.3 | 1.3 | <ul><li>the Kandy HID SDK is updated</li><li>the Kandy HID Driver for VDI is also updated</li><li>version 1.3 of the Kandy HID SDK is compatible with Kandy HID Driver for VDI versions 1.2 and 1.3</li></ul> |


## CHANGELOG
See [CHANGELOG](./CHANGELOG.md).
